# Customizing Cart Validation[](id=customizing-cart-validation)

Whenever a buyer adds a product to his cart or attempts to check out, @commerce@
checks to make sure that the transaction is permissible. This tutorial describes
how to inject custom behavior into the validation check.

In each product's
[*Configuration*](/web/commerce/documentation/-/knowledge_base/1-0/configuration)
page, there are several settings administrators can adjust to govern how the
product can be purchased. Minimum order quantities can be set, out-of-stock
items may or may not be back-ordered, etc. Out of the box, @commerce@ performs
a validation check on each transaction to ensure these conditions are met. An
initial check is made when an item is added to the cart and again as the buyer
checks out, revalidating the cart at each step in the checkout process. This
ensures that conditions haven't changed (for example, a product may have run out
of stock) between the first validation and order placement.

Cart validation is handled by `DefaultCommerceOrderValidatorImpl`, which
implements `CommerceOrderValidator`. To impose new conditions on purchases, you
can customize the validator by creating a new component implementing the same
interface, adding its functionality on top of
`DefaultCommerceOrderValidatorImpl`.

Follow these steps:

1.  Create a new module and add dependencies on `com.liferay.commerce.api` and
    `com.liferay.commerce.product.api` to the `build.gradle` file.

2.  Create a new component to implement the `CommerceOrderValidator` interface.

3.  Include your custom rules in the interface's methods.

First, add dependencies to `build.gradle`. The build script should look like
this:

    sourceCompatibility = "1.8"
    targetCompatibility = "1.8"

    dependencies {
        compileOnly group: "com.liferay.commerce", name: "com.liferay.commerce.api", version: "2.0.0"
        compileOnly group: "com.liferay.commerce", name: "com.liferay.commerce.product.api", version: "2.0.0"
        compileOnly group: "com.liferay.portal", name: "com.liferay.portal.kernel", version: "3.5.0"
        compileOnly group: "org.osgi", name: "org.osgi.service.component.annotations", version: "1.3.0"
    }

Then implement the interface:

    @Component(
        immediate = true,
        property = {
            "commerce.order.validator.key=" + SampleCommerceOrderValidatorImpl.KEY,
            "commerce.order.validator.priority:Integer=10"
        },
        service = CommerceOrderValidator.class
    )
    public class SampleCommerceOrderValidatorImpl
        implements CommerceOrderValidator {

        public static final String KEY = "sample-validator";

        @Override
        public String getKey() {
            return KEY;
        }

The interface requires two more methods after the `getKey` method. These methods
contain the logic of the validation check---this is where to insert your own
code. The following method is called whenever a buyer proceeds to a new step in
the checkout process. It validates products that are already in the cart and
returns the `CommerceOrderValidatorResult` object for display to the user:

    @Override
    public CommerceOrderValidatorResult validate(
            CommerceOrderItem commerceOrderItem)
        throws PortalException {
        
        if (commerceOrderItem.getQuantity() != 100) {

            return new CommerceOrderValidatorResult(
                commerceOrderItem.getCommerceOrderItemId(), false,
                "quantity-is-not-valid");
        }

        return new CommerceOrderValidatorResult(true);
    }

The interface's second `validate` method makes the same check as the first. In
this case, however, the method checks products as they are added to the cart:

    @Override
        public CommerceOrderValidatorResult validate(
                CPInstance cpInstance, int quantity)
            throws PortalException {

            if (cpInstance == null) {
                return new CommerceOrderValidatorResult(false);
            }

    if (quantity != 100) {

            return new CommerceOrderValidatorResult(false, "quantity-is-not-valid");
        }
            return new CommerceOrderValidatorResult(true);
        }
    }

In this simplified example, the validator checks whether an order's quantity is
100 and rejects any other quantity. For a real-world example see
`DefaultCommerceOrderValidatorImpl.java`.
