# Minium

The Minium Accelerator models a business-to-business site geared to meet the
needs of a wholesale distributor. Minium showcases an account management system
where multiple users with various Roles can be added to a single buyer account.

## Theme

The Minium theme includes a number of embedded features, including pop-up
navigation and cart menus, and an Account & Order selector.

![Figure 1: The navigation menu provides quick links to the catalog, pending and past orders, and account management, while the cart menu displays the current order.](../../images/minium-menu.png)

The Account & Order selector displays accounts that the current user can access
(administrators can access any account). Once an account is selected, its open
orders are displayed.

## Pages

Minium populates a site with number of widgets and pages, providing a complete
user experience for buyers. To see the full list of pages, go to *Site Menu*
&rarr; *Build* &rarr; *Pages*.

![Figure 2: To see a page's layout and widgets, click ![options](../../icon-kebab-gray-on-white.png) &rarr; *View*.](../../images/minium-pages.png)

In general, these pages work as described
[here](/web/commerce/documentation/-/knowledge_base/1-0/setting-up-storefront),
but there are some differences. For example, instead of using a dedicated
categories page, the site's homepage displays the entire contents of the
catalog. To display products of a single category, select a checkbox in the
Category Facet widget.

![Figure 3: Category navigation is handled by search facets](../../images/minium-facets.png)

Minium does not use a conventional cart page. Instead, a link to the checkout
page is included in the theme-embedded cart menu.

## Catalog

Minium's catalog includes a range of sample products divided into several
categories; these have been assigned various specifications and prices. Of
course, these are no use in setting up a live store, but can save you a lot of
time while you're working to understand the catalog's functionality.

## Settings

Minium activates a number of site settings that are not enabled in a blank
site. The site's country and currency lists are filled in, and some default
measurement units are provide along with three fictional warehouses.

![Figure 4: You can see much of what Minium supplies by clicking on *Settings* &rarr; *Health Check*.](../../images/minium-health.png)

Minium also sets the Site Type to B2B, which assumes that all your buyers'
accounts are business accounts, rather than personal. See [Site
Types](/web/commerce/documentation/-/knowledge_base/1-0/site-types) for more
information.
